[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Tracy [music]
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Wisenthal. Joe, I keep
thinking about that Sam Alman hype cycle
kind of phrase, the whole it's over and
then we're so back thing. And obviously
he was talking about AI and how people,
you know, feel about AI, but I think you
could apply it to a bunch of different
markets at the moment. So AI obviously,
but also private credit. Think back to
the end of last year, right? We had all
the JP Morgan, Jamie Diamonds,
proverbial cockroaches emerging from
private credit and people started to get
really worried. Fast forward to January
2026 and a lot of those concerns seem to
have faded into the background.
>> Right. You wrote that thing, right? Like
spreads everywhere are super tight and
already we know that the uh the stock
market is up for the year, but credit
market is off to a very strong start of
all flavors from what I understand.
>> Right. Stock markets stealing all the
spotlight. But if you look at the
corporate bond market, now this is the
public bond market, not private, but
spreads are, you know, at basically
historic heights. I think the uh the
high yield index is starting at its like
tightest level ever in the history of
the index for the year. This is crazy,
but it also highlights an important
point which is that spreads and returns
are all relative. Yeah. Right. And so if
the public market is absolutely booming,
that could be a good thing for private
credit, but also private credit competes
with the public market, right? So if
you're getting pretty good returns in
public credit or leverage loans,
something like that, maybe you're not
going into private credit as much as you
used to. What if you found a house that
just had one cockroach? That would be
Could you imagine?
>> There's never one cockroach. That's the
point.
>> There had to have been a first cockroach
that enters the house. You get it really
quickly in your uh and then you don't
have a cockroach problem.
>> Did I ever tell you I hate cockroaches
so much. The first of all, the first
Japanese word I ever relearned when I
moved back to Japan as like a
14-year-old was kokori hoy hoy because I
had to go down to the local kambini, the
convenience store, and buy cockroach
hotels because the entire apartment was
infested. And secondly, I hate
cockroaches so much. I once uh read an
entire book about cockroaches just to
know my enemy.
>> Wow.
>> It was like 300 pages on cockroach.
>> Should we get the author on the podcast?
Oh, it was actually a really good book.
It was a sort of like cultural and
scientific study of the history of
cockroaches. But anyway, we are getting
massively off topic.
>> Shall I introduce our guest? We do, in
fact, have the perfect guest. All right,
so we're going to be talking all things
private credit, including how private
credit is relating to the AI space. At
the moment, we're speaking with Michael
Zawatsky, also known as Z. He is the
global chief investment officer for
Blackstone Credit. So Z, thank you so
much for coming on the podcast.
>> Wonderful to be here. Thanks for having
me.
>> So I am told by your uh lovely
Blackstone representatives that over the
last 20 years you have grown
Blackstone's credit franchise into the
largest business by assets at
Blackstone. How hard was that? Were you
just sort of like riding a wave of
corporate issuance?
>> Well, let's talk about a few things that
have happened here. You know, I often
get asked about this growth of private
credit and I think there's a
misconception that that growth was
driven by excess risk-taking. But when
you actually step back and think about
what's happened in the market, you
basically had a innovative breakthrough
that changed the way business was done
that was better for all market
participants. The way I like to
analogize it to is what happened with
Amazon in the retail space. Right?
Before Amazon, if you wanted to go buy
something, you had to go to the store.
But Amazon kind of took out that
middleman and brought you the consumer
directly to the manufacturer and in the
process created something that was
simpler, more efficient, better for the
economy, more transparent. What's
private credit done? It's done the same
thing. It's brought the borrower right
up directly to our investors capital. We
sometimes call it this farm-totable
model, right?
>> What have you done in that process?
You've cut out all the middlemen, all
the syndication, all the trading desks,
all the stuff that led to leakage along
the way. And in the process, you built
something that was better for all market
participants. If you're a borrower, you
get to speak directly to your lender.
You get a customized solution. You get
speed, certainty of execution. If you're
an investor, you capture all of that
excess leakage in the form of higher
returns. And that's been the case for
the last 20 years. And by the way, if
you're the financial markets, you have
an ecosystem that is less levered, more
asset liability management, brings more
financial stability to the overall
ecosystem. When you have something
that's really good for all market
participants, it tends to grow a lot and
that's what's happened in private
credit.
>> What is the equivalent of like in this
analogy which I really like, what is the
equivalent of the web, right? So the
reason Amazon could cut out the physical
bookstore or the various other retailers
etc is because the internet exists and
that create solves some information
problems etc. How would you describe the
sort of like the thing that exists now
such that so many different middlemen
and so forth can be cut out
>> scale. Okay.
>> Scale, right? The reason we couldn't do
what we do today
>> 20 years ago
>> is cuz we didn't have the capital base.
We couldn't write a billion dollar plus
deal. Here's an interesting fact. Before
2021, there were only $5 billion plus
private credit deals done ever. Since
2021, 100 plus, and we at Blackstone
have done most of them. So, what does
that mean? We have the scale of capital
to actually solve the problems for our
clients. we have the breath of team to
go out and cover the market and bring
these solutions direct to our borrowers.
And then the other thing that's happened
is the expansion of private credit
beyond what a lot of people think of it
as which is middle market sponsor back
direct lending into what we call the
real economy. Right? taking what is a$
two trillion dollar market today and
thinking about a 30 plus trillion dollar
addressable market when you think about
areas like private investment grade real
assets assetbacked finance and so the
other big piece of this is just the
massive expansion in the addressable
market that's come about
>> so I take the point about you know
customized financing solutions and
bringing investors closer to capital and
all of that but at the same time like
the concern is that as the base grows,
competition for deals increases and
that's when you start to see not just
potentially lower spreads but also more
leverage and we have seen you know some
first leans that are now uni trenches
and things that would normally spark a
little bit of worry. Is that something
that you're seeing in the market?
>> Well, it's funny. Look, I've been doing
private credit for two decades. I think
back to the deals that we were first
doing in private credit 20 years ago and
I would tell you I don't know that a
single one of them would pass our
investment committee today. They were
small. They were cyclical. They were
basically the stuff the banks wouldn't
do. Fast forward to today. Think about
the average direct lending deal we do.
It's a $200 million EBIT business. It's
40% loan to value. PreGf loan to values
on deals were 65% plus. And so when I
think about the risk posture of a senior
secured loan today, it feels pretty good
relative to history. And then that needs
to be combined with the fact that this
opportunity in investment grade private
credit I would say is the fastest
growing opportunity we see in credit at
Blackstone.
>> Right? So this is the other new thing
that's happening is uh IG private
credit. So, you know, private credit
extended to companies with very good
balance sheets, not junk rated, uh, has
become more of a thing. It's going
mainstream and a lot of that is driven
by AI issuance and techreated issuance.
Talk more about what you're seeing in
that space.
>> Well, I think that's a big part of it,
right? Anytime you see a significant
need for capital which we obviously see
in the data center buildout and then
connected to that all the energy power
and infrastructure that needs to uh
accompany that. You see huge capital
needs and markets that need that much
capital need to access all available
options and that includes public credit
but that also includes private credit.
Morgan Stanley put out a piece late last
year that estimated that $800 billion of
private credit alone is needed to
finance the digital infrastructure build
out over the next 5 years. Okay, so
that's a massive number. I think what
gets missed when people think about the
financing element of financing a data
center for example is we're financing 15
20-year takeerpay contracts
with
>> take pay contract
>> meaning think about a triple net lease
contract. No matter what your usage is,
no matter what your operating costs are,
you're getting a fixed sum every single
month from your tenant and they can't
get out of that contract. Okay? And
you're getting that from some of the
highest quality credit counterparties in
the world, right? Hyperscalers are the
tenants in most of the data centers
today. And so as I sit with my credit
hat on, if I can lend against some of
the best counterparties in the world
against a known defined stream of cash
flows and I can do that with 150 to 200
basis points of excess spread versus
like rated public credit.
>> Yeah. Well, sorry, explain that. So, we
the uh most creditworthy companies in
the worlds are these cash flow gushers,
the big tech companies, etc. What is the
I still don't quite get what is the
advantage for them of the private credit
market spreads as you mentioned are
wider. They can access the bond market.
They do it all the time or they
certainly can. So what is the what does
private credit solve for the meadows of
the world and the apples of the world
such that they can't borrow um versus
the public credit market? Customization,
okay, speed,
>> certainty, flexibility, bringing that
solution direct to the borrower.
Sometimes there's certain elements in
terms of the timing or whatever the case
may be that requires a private solution,
confidentiality.
>> Can you just explain that a little
further? Like what is it about these
projects specifically when you say like
customization? People say customization
all the time. Give us a specific
example.
>> Okay. Well, sometimes there's a
construction element. Okay. So, you need
to fund over time as opposed to funding
all of your capital day one. That's a
good example, right? Sometimes you need
to structure in a certain way um in
terms of the timing of the cash flows.
That's another example. So there are
things that are needed that don't
necessarily increase credit risk, but
they don't fit the cookie cutter mold of
a straight away investment grade public
bond.
[music]
So this might be a difficult question to
answer, but when you look at your own
portfolio, your own very large
portfolio, can you give like a rough
estimate of how much AI exposure has
increased over the years?
>> Well, that's a fascinating question,
right? Because um I tend to think about
AI exposure pretty broadly, right? cuz I
think AI will impact not just data
centers and the direct um you know um
first derivative impact but the second
derivative impact the third derivative
impact.
>> So you're looking at companies that
could be disrupted as well. We're
looking at it all and we have been
looking at it all and this is this is
part of working at Blackstone, right?
Like we have unbelievable insights into
what's going on all around the globe in
all of these markets, not just within
our credit business that has 5,000 plus
borrowers, but our private equity
business, our infrastructure business,
our real estate business. We happen to
own a couple of the largest data center
developers in the world. We have a huge
operating team that helps companies
implement uh AI capabilities, help them
play offense and defense when needed.
And so we leverage all of these res
resources and I think about AI impact
across almost every business in our
portfolio to varying degrees. But I
think you have to be front-footed in
thinking about that as an investor.
>> What about direct exposure to let's
forget about second derivatives.
>> I take the point but like the reason I'm
asking is because there are some
concerns around concentration limits at
places like insurers.
>> Yeah. Look, we have over $500 billion
dollar of assets uh and credit at
Blackstone and I would tell you like the
the amount of direct data center
exposure is is a small minority of that.
It would not rise to the level of
something where any of our clients would
feel like they have concentration. What
about in terms of setting aside like
formal concentration limits just in
terms of like on a day-to-day business
right now or over the last year how much
of new new activity would you say is
related to either sort of data centers
or maybe some of the power uh yeah the
power financing that is also needed for
data centers. Look, um I would tell you
it's a material portion of what we're
doing because it is such a capital
intensive.
>> Yeah.
>> Credit intensive part of the market.
>> But when I think about everything we're
doing across our business and credit, it
doesn't it doesn't screen as something
that's, you know, significantly
overweight. Like if I think about what
we're doing in our private investment
grade business, that's a real asset
strategy broadly defined, right? That
includes obviously digital
infrastructure. It includes energy and
power, but it includes residential
mortgages, which is a massive asset
class. It includes equipment finance. We
just announced a deal recently um to do
to do an aircraft engine partnership.
And frankly, I'd say the single biggest
thing that it includes is what we call
corporate solutions. And these are
largecale customized private credit
partnerships
with public investment grade companies.
And so recently we did a deal with
Rogers up in Canada where we did a $5
billion financing for them against their
network infrastructure back hall. We
then did a deal late last year with
Serra Infrastructure to help them build
out an LNG project. And we're seeing
that not just in the US, we're seeing
that globally. We announced a deal
yesterday in fact with Ahold, the the
European supermarket company to help
expand their logistics footprint. And so
I would tell you the biggest theme I see
across our private investment grade
business is this notion of what we call
corporate solutions.
>> Um what's it like sourcing deals at the
moment? So Blackstone obviously very
big. So I imagine people are coming to
you constantly but at the same time one
of the things we heard when the private
credit market was very very hot was
>> there's a lot of competition for deals
right and everyone wants um in on
certain financing transactions. So
what's it like? You got to take it
market by market, right? We were just
talking about private investment grade
corporate solutions, some of these big
infrastructure credit areas. I would
tell you in that market
there is more demand for capital than
there are players like Blackstone with
the scale to actually meet those needs.
And so that is a market where I would
tell you we have robust deal activity
and that is a market where I see a lot
of excess spread. I know you mentioned
earlier that spreads are tight. That's
an area where I would say spreads are
actually quite attractive, right? If you
think about public IG spreads today are
80 basis points. If you can make 250
basis points in like forl like credit
rated risk like that's a lot of relative
excess spread and that's happening
because the demand for capital relative
to the supply of capital is quite
attractive and that's showing up for us
as lenders. I'd say in the direct
lending market um that's a market where
spreads have tightened in sympathy with
the liquid subinvestment grade markets
but the excess spread remains right that
excess spread of a couple hundred basis
points persists I think what is helping
is you are seeing this increase in deal
activity we saw very strong M&A activity
in the back half of last year if I look
at our Q4 pipeline it's actually up 25%
versus what it was at this time last
year and I think we are optimistic about
a strong recovery in deal activity that
will help on your point in terms of
sourcing deals in that market
specifically. I think the other thing
that's really important and and you
asked this question around how do we
scale a business part of it is not just
waiting and sitting for the phone to
ring. A huge part of what we do is think
about the thematic areas within all of
Blackstone, not just credit that we want
to deploy capital in and digital infra
energy and power. Those are good
examples in the investment grade space,
but there are also advance examples in
the subinvestment grade space. Life
sciences, utility services. And what our
team does is we proactively identify
these companies and pitch them
customized solutions. And because we
have the scale of capital to actually
solve that problem, we can do that. We
did a deal late last year with a company
called Signant Health in the life
sciences space, a billion-dollar plus
transaction that we led. How did we do
that? Well, we had financed their number
one competitor. We had followed this
loan because we had held it in our
liquid book. And so, we had the idea,
hey, let's call this company and say,
you should do a private loan. And that's
where the idea Asian comes. And that's
where the differentiation in the market
comes. A lot of people can pick up the
phone.
>> Not a lot of people can create their own
ideas and actually affectuate them. And
I think that's something we're uniquely
good at. everything is just sort of like
scale and power laws and compounding
return from having grown and having ha
having that network the big get bigger
it's really such an extraordinary thing
and we see it in tech but we also
clearly see it in finance I think with
like you know the percentage of market
share that acrru to the biggest players
um clearly an advantage obviously want
to talk more about the industry overall
going back to you know Tracy mentioned
that we're so it's so over we're so back
or so or so cycle. So at the end of last
year
>> there were two things
>> um there were like two like kind of
blowups um in but both were both related
to autos. So uh treellor I don't know if
I'm pronouncing triricor
[laughter]
>> that's one of those words where I feel
like very stupid pronouncing it the
right way.
>> Yeah I do too.
And I'm like, should I just sayricolor
like I don't So there was a precolor and
then first brands which I'm pretty sure
I'm pronouncing correctly. And then
there was like so that was like in the
auto space and then there was all the
stuff that went viral for about 5
minutes. There was something about the
chips and maybe they're going to
depreciate faster than people expect and
a bunch of people are going to be
holding the bag and I racket that out
aside.
>> Okay.
>> You get those uh blowups and the auto
area. Jamie Diamond comes out with the
cockroaches. What was your read on that
moment? Was there reason to think that
there are more trol
out there?
>> I would tell you when all of that was
going down, we were scratching our
heads. And the biggest reason we were
scratching our heads were all of those
examples were bankled, bagg syndicated,
baggwritten deals that somehow got
confused with private credit. And this
is the biggest frustration for us
because we looked at those deals and we
said, "Hey, one of the advantages of
private credit is you can actually do
private level due diligence. You can get
access to management team. You can do
weeks of work. You can get private
access to information." And so one of
our observations there was there was
this misconception and that's why we
think it's so important to continue to
educate on the distinctions between
public credit and private credit and
those situations um were public credit.
I think the other thing that I think
people maybe maybe don't appreciate is
while private credit has gotten a lot of
attention recently, private credit's
been around for a long time. You can
look at 20-year returns in private
credit and you can see that they've
outperformed liquid credit by several
hundred basis points over 20 years
through cycles. Also, you can look at
the fact that realized losses over that
20-year period for the industry have
been 1%. And so I think we look to the
data, we look to the clarification, but
then I think the last thing that's also
important to highlight here is
defaults happen in sub investment grade
credit. And I think this is the other
thing that I think gets missed. People
see a headline about a credit issue.
>> We have thousands of credit in our
portfolios.
Some of them are going to have issues.
That is normal. If you look at the
long-term default rate in the leverage
loan market, in the public high yield
market, it's 3%. These things happen. We
account for them in our underwriting. We
account for them in how we mark our
portfolio. And most importantly, we have
the resources to deal with those
situations. We have operating people.
We've got a big workout team. And if we
do have challenges in our book, I think
to your point on scale, Joe, having the
strength of Blackstone, the resource and
intellectual capital of Blackstone to
actually support those companies and
drive good outcomes for our investors
over term, that's what matters. just uh
I take your point about the 20-year
returns, but you know, 20 years ago, the
private credit industry barely existed,
right? And then we've basically had a
17-year bull market except for five
minutes in 2020. Um a 17-year bull
market in risk assets. So I don't think
it's crazy to say like yes the returns
they're real they deliver the defaults
are low defaults happen but I don't
think it's totally crazy to wonder if
you're a turning point because there's
to some extent you can only take a
20-year track record so far if 17 years
of them were in more or less a non-stop
bull market.
>> So here's what I see. First off, what I
think will happen in the market is that
you will continue to see private credit
grow and you will continue to see strong
private credit performance. That said,
you're right. If I look forward versus
looking back, I think you it's
reasonable to believe that you will see
more dispersion in the asset class. You
will see some players underperform. You
will see some players have higher
losses. I don't think that means the
entire asset class will face challenges
because the model like we started with
that Amazon analogy that still persists.
The excess spread versus liquid markets
that is durable. The way our clients
access private credit and all of these
new areas beyond direct lending, we're
at the very very beginning of that very
very long road. And so I think the
long-term thesis for private credit is
intact. By the way, you don't see
massive waves of defaults outside of
recessions. And it doesn't feel like to
me we're headed into a recession. When I
look at corporate um earnings growth,
when I look at where consumers are, when
I look at fiscal and monetary stimulus,
none of that points to recession to me.
And so when I look forward, I don't see
we I don't see this big turning point
for the industry. I see continued growth
in the industry. But what I do see
is more dispersion which is a good
thing. If you think about all
established asset classes, you have top
quartile managers and you have bottom
cortile managers. And so I think the
asset class will be a lot more about who
is better at originating deals, who is
better at managing challenges in their
portfolio, who has the broadest aperture
to identify areas within credit broadly
defined where clients can deploy where
there is excess spread, where there is
better risk adjusted returns. I think
that's the era we're heading into and I
would say we strongly embrace that era.
>> Okay. So you don't see lots of defaults
coming up, but what about liability
management exercises or just
restructuring debt? Because this is
something that comes up occasionally. If
you look at the default rate for private
credit, I think officially it's below 2%
something like that. But if you add back
in the liability management exercises
that we've seen at places like First
Brands, um it goes higher. I think it
goes to like 5% or something like that.
Would you expect more companies to be
restructuring debt as this dispersion
effect maybe feeds through?
>> Well, I think there's two pieces I want
to unpack there. One, this whole notion
of liability management.
>> It really is a public market phenomenon
and it exists in the public markets
because public credit documents are
really weak, right? It they don't have
the same covenant protections that you
have in private credit. And so, you can
have debt layered in front of you. You
can have collateral stripped. That's
what's happened in a lot of these
situations in the public markets.
Fortunately, in private credit, the
documents are more protective. And so, I
think you will see less of that
aggressive behavior in the private
credit markets certainly versus the
public credit markets. The second thing
I would say, Tracy, is um the default is
just the beginning. What really matters
to clients are losses, right? Because
the strength of a private credit
document allows you to get to a table
and negotiate with the owner for maybe
more equity. Sometimes we have to take
control of the company and we can use
all of the resources of Blackstone to
improve that company and actually
deliver a strong outcome for our
clients. And so I think those are the
two points I would focus on. Yes, you
will see defaults but the question is
over time what is the loss experience
for investors and that's something I
think we have a lot of conviction in.
>> Okay. So the other thing besides the uh
first branch and first branch and trial
blowups was the
>> you just want to keep saying
>> I just I'm going to say like 10 more
[laughter] times um was this anxiety
about you know the quality of some of
these data center finding like oh are
the chips going to be as valuable as
people think and um you know actually I
was just looking up like um some of the
credit default swaps on Oracle actually
uh basically continuing to hit new highs
coreweave which is another one that
people were watching a lot that's
actually come in a bit So maybe I don't
know people are chilled out a little bit
but from the um capital provider the the
the lenders
>> um what is the appetite right now for AI
or related infrastructure financing in
the wave of some of these hiccups and
what we see in like the CDS market for
what might be some proxies for this kind
of stuff. Look, I think the nature of
the risk matters, right? I don't want to
paint it with a broad brush cuz you hit
it. The type of collateral matters. Who
your counterparty matters for us.
Whether we're financing chips, we're
financing a data center, we don't want
to take residual value risk, right? I
don't view that as credit risk. So, if I
can invest in chips, if I can invest in
a data center that has investment grade
counterparty risk and my debt will fully
be repaid inside of that contractual
agreement, whether it's triple net or
whatever. Um, and I don't have to take
residual value risk. I don't care what
that data center is worth in year 25. I
don't care what those chips are worth in
year 7. That's really good risk. I think
when you confine it to that which is
what we are doing I think that's quite
attractive. Will folks take that next
layer of risk? They might, but you need
to make equity returns. any pullback
like in some of the you know the less
triple net whatever they like compare
say okay January 2026 versus January
2025 any anxiety because we know that
there is incredible demand for the
buildout right it's this multi-year
multi- trillion dollar thing from your
perspective right now how uh strong is
the capital base for that buildout has
it changed at all
>> I think when you have the contractual
protections And I'm highlighting I think
the demand is there. Now
>> there been some change since 2025.
>> I would tell you that because the demand
for capital is so significant and bigger
than the supply of available capital.
When you see that happen, you see
spreads tend to widen. That's a healthy
thing. That's a good thing for the
markets. And I think some of those deals
that don't have the protections that I
highlighted, they have a harder time
getting done in the credit markets. And
you see them get funded in the equity
markets. I think both of those things
are healthy. I think when I take a big
step back,
there is a lot of chatter about this
market, but we are firm believers in the
impact of AI. Sure. And I think the
bigger risk is underestimating the
impact of it on your broader portfolio
like I was alluding to before.
>> Um, what was the fourth quarter actually
like for you and what sort of questions
were you getting from investors? Because
we know, you know, some other private
credit players like Blue Owl got a bunch
of redemptions. Um, did you see similar
pressures? Look, anytime you tend to see
um some of the press that you
highlighted, it's natural to get
questions and we embrace those questions
and we address them with the facts that
I just highlighted. I think for us, we
continue to see very strong demand for
credit. I was around the world I think
twice in the fourth quarter meeting with
um our clients around the world and I
would tell you in aggregate they want
more private credit, right? our
institutional clients. I think year-to-
date through 9:30 inflows were up over
50% versus where they were a year prior.
We held a forum with many of our big
clients um late last year to discuss
relative value and risks in the credit
market. And actually, it was great for
me because it was a way I could actually
survey our clients on their views. And I
would tell you they continue to be very
bullish on private credit. If anything,
they feel underallocated to private
credit as an asset class. And so I think
the momentum will continue.
[music]
>> This sort of touches on one of my
favorite um things to talk about like
sort of portfolio construction, but for
these mega clients,
>> if they say, "Okay, we're underallocated
or we want more of this." What is it
that in their broad portfolio allocation
the characteristics of private credit
are solving for them right now?
>> Yeah. Well, look, yield.
>> Okay.
>> Everyone loves yield,
>> right? Everybody loves yield. And I
think even with spreads tighter and with
rates coming off a little bit, even with
that,
>> the yield in credit relative to the
earnings yield of the S&P is as
attractive has been over a very long
period of time. So, credit remains
attractive. I think when valuations are
expensive like they are across the world
today in most asset classes, being
defensive at the top of the capital
structure really matters.
Diversification, right? Most of our
clients have a lot of credit risk,
corporate credit risk, excuse me,
corporate risk in their portfolios,
whether it's private equity or on the
credit side. What about real assets?
That's why assetback finance, that's why
investment grade have been so um
convincing for you know so high
conviction for our clients because it
offers that diversification.
It offers that access to real hard
assets that are downside protected
versus corporate risk. And then I would
say the other big theme for our clients
around the world is something we call
multi-asset credit. It is this notion
that credit as a whole is a place I want
to be deployed into. However, I'm also
recognizing the fact that markets eb and
flow. Where one market within credit is
attractive, one might be less
attractive. How do I partner with
someone like Blackstone across
everything we do over a dozen different
asset classes within credit to build a
diversified, resilient, higher yielding
portfolio that allows me to pivot to the
best opportunities in the market
wherever they may be? M um setting aside
some of the uh cockroach phenomenon of
late 2025, there was another thing that
happened that was pretty big for the
credit market and that was the
withdrawal of the leverage lending
guidelines for banks.
>> Uh basically making it easier for them
to uh do broadly syndicated loans. Would
you expect that to increase competition
between the banks and the you know BDC's
so to speak?
>> Look, that one's gotten a lot of
attention and I've spoken to a lot of my
friends at the banks recently. I think
the reality is on new direct lending
deals, the market, and by the market, I
mean the private equity sponsors,
they've largely spoken, right? Like
speed, certainty, flexibility,
customization, all the stuff I hit on,
that's a really good thing for them,
especially when they're buying a company
and they're in a competitive auction
process. Even deals that met the
leverage loan lending guidelines that
were in place over the last two years,
85% of them were financed privately,
right? So even when you had complying
deals, they were borrowers were still
choosing private credit. I'd say today
our partnership opportunities with the
banks, particularly on the investment
grade side of what we do,
it is more uh it is bigger than anything
I would say that we've seen over the
last several years. The bank's desire to
partner with us where they keep the
client arrangement, they keep the
servicing, we keep the asset. We are
seeing that as a global dynamic
especially around some of these longer
duration asset classes, these hard asset
asset classes and those are the exact
things that our our investors want and
so I think that partnership opportunity
um will continue to grow.
>> This is the friendmy dynamic that we've
spoken about before right so private
lenders are in competition with the
public lenders the banks but at the same
time we're seeing more partnerships. No,
and there's a lot of intu intuitive
there about, you know, wanting to keep
that relationship, but also this element
of like, okay, the speed and
customization, the financing. I have a
question actually about management,
internal management and the art of
growing a business. You mentioned being
proactive. So, you're going to have
people on the phone and they're like, we
did this thing. Would you be interested
in this solution? And so forth. You have
this big company. You're building it
over time. I'm curious like how do you
design a system such that you have lots
of people working the phones but um
wanting to grow their own books but not
lower standards and let garbage into it
and how do you think like how do you
build those systems into it so that the
person on the phone isn't you know yeah
bringing in a bunch of garbage just to
grow volume
>> I love this question so um as I think
back at the history of our business at
blastoning credit obviously we've seen
tremendous growth we've seen tremendous
success. Um, a big turning point for me
personally was co because up until that
point in time, we ran each of our
businesses almost as verticals, right?
We whether it was direct lending or
asset back finance or liquid credit, we
had PMs in each of those businesses and
they ran each of their businesses from
raising the capital to investing the
capital to manage the team almost as a
vertical entity.
>> We had no horizontal layer. But what co
taught us when we were all at home in
our pajamas and the markets were going
wonky that we needed that connectivity.
It would be really valuable if one piece
of our business was really connected
with the other piece of our business.
And so we started building out our CIO
office which I lead as a horizontal
layer to connect all of the dots and
bring tremendous consistency across our
teams. And 5 years on that team is now
120 plus people. And what that team does
day in day out is unifying the fabric of
every single one of our investment
businesses. And so we have a single
investment committee that whether you
are a direct lending deal or an asset
back deal or a liquid deal, you go to
that same investment committee, same
underwriting standards, same memo, but
most importantly the same people hearing
the deals from all the different parts
of the Blackstone credit ecosystem to
know where are the best opportunities.
By the way, that investment committee
also includes senior representatives of
Blackstone outside of credit. What are
we learning in private equity? What are
we learning in infrastructure that might
influence this decision? The way we
aggregate and monitor data, we now have
one centralized portfolio company
reporting system. And so anytime we see
weaknesses in an area, instantly the
entire team knows that and say, "Okay,
let's pull back origination in this
sector and let's lean into origination
in this other sector." And so
systemizing our data, centralizing our
processes, being even more plugged into
the themes we see more broadly at
Blackstone, that has been a critical
part of our journey and I think a huge
competitive advantage for us going
forward.
>> I just want to go back to where we
started the conversation and I mean
really the beginning of the
conversation, your job title. So CIO for
Blackstone Credit and insurance. I think
this is really important and
underappreciated in many ways, but the
partnership between insurers and private
credit has been phenomenal. Like a lot
of the private credit growth that we are
seeing is coming directly from insurers.
How important is it to I guess be an
insurance company if you're in the
private credit space or have access to
that pool of capital?
>> Sure. Well, couple points I want to
really hit here. Um, one is our business
model in insurance because it is
different than some others, right? We
don't have a captive insurance balance
sheet. We don't originate insurance
liabilities directly at Blackstone. All
we do is act as a third-party asset
manager on behalf of insurance clients.
That's what we do best. That's all we
want to do. Brick by brick. We've built
our client base. It's a fully open
architecture model. All of our clients
sit shoulder-to-shoulder. Um, and so I
think that business model is critical,
right? We don't want to compete with our
clients. Um, and we want to make sure
that every single one of them gets a
great experience with us. I think that's
a business model question. And I think
that's an important part of how we set
up that franchise. The second piece is
the why. Why are insurance companies
seeking private credit capital? Well, in
the case of a lifeur, you're writing a
40-year life insurance policy. In case
of writing an annuity, you're writing a
a set uh contract. Um the best way to
manage assets against those liabilities
are safe cash paying contractual assets.
Those assets are exactly what we
originate in private credit. And that
excess spread that we've been talking
about throughout this discussion, 150 to
200 basis points for investment grade
like for like credit, that is
extraordinarily
valuable for insurance companies versus
just buying traditional liquids on the
screen. And we've seen US insurance
companies adopt that in scale with a ton
of success. And one of the big themes I
see going forward is that same idea
expanding to Europe, expanding to Asia
because it is such a strong fit for
insurance company balance sheets,
highquality, safe, contractual,
longduration investment grade assets. So
I've never worked in insurance or
private credit, but I've worked in the
media industry and the digital media
industry. And one of the phenomenons
that you see is company starts and they
buy various thirdparty solutions off the
shelf like oh I'm going to like buy a
piece of software to run my uh content
management system for the website. Then
you grow and then you grow and you're
like you know what this uh third party
solution doesn't work I need to build my
own software for managing my content
etc. Does what happens like do insurance
companies hit a point where it's like
you know what
>> we we we've enjoyed doing business with
you but we actually want to launch our
own private credit arm and we know that
there are some of course
>> I mean there are insurers who are joined
at the do all do they what is there a
point where it just makes sense for them
to like have their own private credit
shop or is it sort of case by case
whether that makes sense for them? Well,
I think the direction of travel broadly
is the other way, right? The reason why
our business has grown so much is
because insurance companies have said,
"Hey, Blackstoneone, you're really good
at this. You've got a huge dedicated
team. You've got tons of expertise. We
can't replicate it." But that is company
by company and some continue to do some
things in house. Some have certain
strategies where they have that
expertise and they'll continue to do
that in house and we're happy to
complement in the areas where we can be
editive. But I would say the overall
direction of travel is a realization
that we have built out this
infrastructure, this origination team,
this CIO portfolio man management
franchise, this allocate asset
allocation framework and clients want to
benefit from that.
>> Uh you've mentioned excess spreads
throughout this conversation and I take
the point that everything is relative. I
think I mentioned that in the intro, but
it is also true that spreads on direct
lending have fallen over the past year.
So, I think we went below 10% for like
the first time in 3 years, something
like that. They used to be in the mid to
low teens. What do you see happening to
spreads next year or this year, I should
say, because it seems kind of concerning
to me if we're getting more supply, but
spreads are grinding tighter.
>> Yeah. Well, look, I think there's a
couple of things there. First, you
mentioned it, right? Um, borrowers do
have choice, right? And so there is
going to be some connection to where the
liquid markets are and over time that
200 basis point spread for privates
versus liquids has held and it holds
today. And so I think that's one thing
to watch and I think that relative value
point you made is the crit critical
point. I think the second thing is um
yes you are starting to see more M&A
supply but we're still well off where we
were 5 years ago. And so I think there's
still a lot more room to run. And when I
kind of step back and I look at the
simple math of private equity dry powder
versus private credit dry powder,
private equity dry powder outstrips it
five to one. Okay. And so I think
there's still a lot more room to run in
the supply equation. I think spreads
today are pretty stable. And I think our
clients earning that excess spread
versus liquids, earning that absolute
return, which still feels quite good
even though it's not the same as it was
3 years ago still feels quite good
relative to where equities are valued
today and other things in their
portfolio. In private assets in general,
one of the popular critiques is that,
you know, people call volatility
laundering. It's like, oh, look, I had a
rough quarter in my in my stock
portfolio and my whatever, but my credit
portfolio is flat this quarter and
because there were no trades, there were
no marks and that makes me feel sleep
easier at night. And the the accusation
is is an industry built to some extent
on this notion of like here's this asset
class that just like helps me sleep
better at night, it doesn't doesn't
move, etc. What do you what's the
response to the volatility laundering
claim in in private assets generally?
>> Yeah, a couple things there. First, I
looked to a 20-year loss ratio, right?
Like, you can't hide that over 20 years.
And I think those stats speak for
themselves. Second, you're right. Like,
this question around valuations have
have been out there in private assets. I
mean, Blast's been around for 40 years.
We use a best-in-class process with
third party valuation providers. We mark
our book every single quarter. Um, and
and those third parties are the ones
that are doing it. And we mark that to
market. company fundamentals, market
moves, that all shows up. What's funny
to me is, you know, when we do see
underperformance in an asset and we mark
it down, which we do on our watch list
assets, we get questions about that.
People are paying attention to that.
Yet, they are also asking us out of the
same breath, are you actually marking
your assets? And so, I think if you
actually look at our portfolio, you will
see a small subset of the book that
isn't doing what we expected to do, and
we mark those accordingly. I think
that's healthy. I think that's good. I
think that provides some buffer for our
clients and we'll continue to use our
third party wellestablished process to
continue to do so.
>> Uh you mentioned dry powder earlier and
this is a truism of markets which is dry
powder always seems to be waiting in the
wings like no matter where we are in the
credit cycle someone's talking about dry
powder. I'm sort of surprised to hear
that much the number you cited in the
private credit space because again like
we have seen phenomenal growth and
there's still cash lying around that
needs to be deployed.
>> Look, we continue to see strong flows
into the market, right? The product is
doing what it's supposed to do which is
generate strong consistent
outperformance for clients relative to
liquids. I think as long as you see that
continue, you're going to continue to
see strong flows across all of our
client types, whether it's insurance,
institutions, individuals.
uh question I ask a lot of people today
in January 2026 within your
organization.
Are you finding productive applications
of generative AI tools that make your
life easier and reduce uh free up
working hours from people who to do
other things? Yeah, look, this is a huge
focus for us and I think I would be
lying if I say we have the golden ticket
today,
>> but we have a lot of focus on this area.
How do we make our business more
efficient? How do we make it easier on
our teams? Whether it's building models,
knowing what questions to ask in their
due diligence process, data aggregation
and analysis, all of this stuff is in
motion. It's at various stages of
development. Um, and I think you will
continue to see us lean into that
significantly. It can never replace the
investment decision, right? That's still
going to be central to our process. But
I think anytime we can use AI to drive
efficiency, and I like I said, we have
tools that allow that to like create the
start of an investment committee memo,
the start of a model, aggregate data so
we can help our team see trends earlier.
All of these things are in process and I
think more and more you'll see higher
adoption.
>> Could you imagine a future where
valuation is done more by AI? Because I
think about the third party valuation
services. They're doing matrix pricing
which is basically inferring the market
value from you know other clues they can
get.
>> Inference is like you know that's AI
basically. Look, I I think using AI to
support that process, you know, where
have market spreads moved? Okay, this
company's performance was X. How does
that translate into a mark? I think you
will see just like I I highlighted on
the investment process. I think you will
see adoption of support tools driving
efficiency, driving accuracy, driving
scale. At the end of the day, you still
need a human at the end of that to make
the decision. Um, but I do think you'll
see it incorporated more and more into
our workflows. What skills are you
looking for when you think about
recruiting in 2026 and 2027?
>> A lot of people anxious about what they
should what they should know, what they
should be studying, etc. What are the
skills that today are still clearly
valuable and will be valuable that you
would want to see in a new recruit?
Well, look, [clears throat] first and
foremost, the people we look to hire at
Blackstone, incredibly hardworking,
genuinely good people,
motivated by, you know, [clears throat]
taking on more, growing, some of these
like fundamental traits like
>> that is universal and I think that will
never change.
>> I think in an environment where you're
using more and more productivity tools,
>> how do you interact with people? People
want to, you know, do deals with folks
that they feel like they can trust. they
develop good relationships. How do you
think forward around corners? These are
the types of critical thinking and
communication skills that I think are
going to be even more valuable to layer
on to all like the basic stuff we have
always looked for in the people we bring
into the firm.
>> All right, Z, we're going to have to
leave it there, but thank you so much
for coming on all Thoughts. Really
appreciate it.
>> It was my absolute pleasure. Thank you.
>> Thank you so much. That was a lot of
fun. I learned a [music] lot. Thank you.
Joe, [snorts] I'm a journalist or a
podcast host. Maybe there's a
difference.
>> No, no, no. There's no no we're
journalists. People ask me at parties,
what do you do? I say I'm a journalist.
>> All right. All right. Uh the natural
tendencies of journalists is to uh be a
little bit more pessimistic than an
investor. I mean, if you're an investor,
almost by definition, you have to be
optimistic.
>> I agree.
>> A paranoid optimist.
>> That's right. But I do see some signs of
worry in the private credit market. So,
beyond the cockroaches um that we talked
about, you know, we have more companies
doing liability managements. The
documentation point I found kind of
surprising because in our previous
conversations and certainly in some of
the research that I see people say that
documentation is declining. So investor
protections are basically going down and
there's more convergence with the public
market and things like that. So, I I
take the point that like every private
credit investor that we have on this
show is going to say that they're
different and they're more selective and
things like that. And it may be true,
but overall, if you're seeing
documentation go down and leverage go up
and supply increasing, that seems kind
of bad.
>> Yeah. No, I mean, look, I think the
thing that I I guess I mean, all of that
sounds very intuitive to me in these
tensions. The other thing that and it's
sort of related to this is like how do
you maintain like okay you think about
the fundamental service right you think
about the fundamental service of like
speed and custom customizability
and so forth
>> and then the tension that exists is like
okay you want to like turn this around
right away etc and the tension between
that and like robust documentations and
I mean again 20-year to some extent
speaks for itself. But on the other
hand, like you could see how these
things over time would come into um
especially come into tension such a
competitive environment. Exactly.
>> I want to you know what you you place a
phone call to me because you need money.
I want to be able to give you an answer
right away.
>> I'm going to say yes very quickly. I
want to be able to say yes to you to
maintain your business, to maintain that
line and the tensions that could
potentially emerge between like our
relationship as the lender to the
borrower versus, you know, my
relationship to my uh people who want
protections, etc. You could see how
those uh would emerge for sure.
>> Yeah. All right. Shall we leave it
there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Arman
Dashelobennett atbot and Kaleb Brooks at
Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go
to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
[music]
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk about private credit, then
please leave us a positive review on
your favorite podcast platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes. absolutely adree. All you need
to do is find the [music] Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[music]
Oh,